1. What is a protocol stack, and how is it used in web development?
A protocol stack refers to a group of protocols that run simultaneously. Each of the protocols in the stack points to a certain interconnectivity rules for a layered network module.
Link layer : Makes sure two devices are connected via Ethernet or wireless LAN in order to exchange data with each other.
Network Layer :In case the network is bigger than two computers then the network layer makes sure to identify each of the computers with a unique IP address.
Transport Layer : Data between any two computers on the internet doesn't travel in a straight path from computer A to computer B. Data passes from router to router until it reaches the requester's computer. Data breaks up into small packets and are reassembled at the requester's computer. The Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) is used to ensure reliable transport of those packets, with sequencing, acknowledgement, and retries.
Application Layer : Data on the internet can be of any form, such as emails, uploading files or chatting online etc. The most common use of the Internet is the World Wide Web, with its millions of publicly viewable websites, all made possible due to the HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP). We can visit a website by typing a domain name in the browser address bar, since the browser knows how to turn the domain into an IP address using the Domain Name System (DNS).
The protocol stack is used to allow the combination of different protocols that each set the boundaries for a number of network activities.


2. What are the different types of web servers, and how do they differ in terms of functionality and performance?
Web server : It is a generalized server that enables users to connect to the internet.
Database server : A database server runs database software. Database software enables users to store, manage, retrieve, update or change files, information logs and other forms of digital data.
Email server : An email server can be created to send automated emails to multiple users.
Web proxy server : This is a server application that acts as an intermediary for requests from clients seeking resources from servers that provide those resources. This is to potentially mask the true origin of the request to the resource server.
DNS server : This server is the phonebook of the Internet. It stores all the IP address and domain name combinations.
FTP server : FTP server is used to transfer files from computer to another.
File server : A file server is a computer responsible for the storage and management of data files so that other computers on the same network can access the files
DHCP server : A DHCP Server is a network server that automatically provides and assigns IP addresses, default gateways and other network parameters to client devices.
Cloud server : A server available on cloud in order to avoid managing physical servers. Cloud servers can perform all the same functions of a traditional physical server, delivering processing power, storage and applications.
Application server : Application servers are system software upon which web applications or desktop applications run. It consists of a web server connector, computer programming language, database connector, runtime libraries and the Administration code. Application server frameworks are Software frameworks for building application servers.
Print server : This server connects printers to client computers over a network. It accepts print jobs from the computers and sends the jobs to the appropriate printers, queuing the jobs locally to accommodate the fact that work may arrive more quickly than the printer can actually handle.
Physical server :


3. What is web hosting, and what are the different types of hosting services available for websites?
Hosting is deploying an application server onto the internet.
Shared hosting : A single server would host multiple applications. It's the most cost efficient way of hosting.
Cloud hosting : Deploying application on cloud server. A major advantage using cloud hosting is guaranteed extremely high uptime. A little bit more expensive than shared hosting.
Managed hosting : Managed hosting is when a user can hire a specialist team to handle the complete deployment process.
VPS hosting : VPS hosting would provide a very clean environment for users application i.e. the number of applications hosted on this server is less. Additionally provides users with VPN security. This can be used when hosting a restricted application.
Dedicated hosting : This would provide complete end to end control. Dedicated hosting is the most expensive type of hosting. It also has a lot of perks like customization and security where each and everything can be controlled by the user. All physical servers come under this category.


4. What is scaling, and why is it important for web applications? How does scaling differ for vertical and horizontal
The process of handling a growing number of users on a web application is scaling.
Vertical scaling is increasing the processing power of the existing server to cope up with the growing user.
Horizontal scaling is increasing the number of servers by replicating the application on multiple servers.


5. What is SEO (Search Engine Optimization), and how can web developers optimize their websites for better search engine rankings?
SEO is optimizing an application code such that it appears as high as possible on search engine results. i.e. When someone searches for something usually the most relevant content is at the top of the page but if an application hasn't used the right html approach even if content of application is most relevant it might not come up on top of the page.
The key difference between SEO and paid advertising is that users don’t pay to be in that space.
Developers can optimize their websites by making the website mobile-friendly, make use of prescribed domains (.com .in .ai etc), having a social media presence, increasing the load time, making use of keywords, making use of relevant content, making use of backlink, having a proper site architecture etc..


